---
UID: NS:gpioclx._GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
title: _GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS (gpioclx.h)
description: The GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS structure specifies a general-purpose I/O (GPIO) pin and describes the interrupt attributes of this pin.
old-location: gpio\gpio_enable_interrupt_parameters.htm
tech.root: GPIO
ms.assetid: 9F9AA4C1-A202-4AF8-8E1D-F7E56C08A2C1
ms.date: 09/24/2020
keywords: ["GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS structure"]
ms.keywords: "*PGPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS, GPIO.gpio_enable_interrupt_parameters, GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS, GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS structure [Parallel Ports], PGPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS, PGPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS structure pointer [Parallel Ports], _GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS, gpioclx/GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS, gpioclx/PGPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS"
req.header: gpioclx.h
req.include-header: 
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: Supported starting with Windows 8.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: 
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS, *PGPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
f1_keywords:
 - _GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
 - gpioclx/_GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
 - PGPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
 - gpioclx/PGPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
 - GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
 - gpioclx/GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
topic_type:
 - APIRef
 - kbSyntax
api_type:
 - HeaderDef
api_location:
 - Gpioclx.h
api_name:
 - GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS
---

# _GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS structure

## -description

The **GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS** structure specifies a general-purpose I/O (GPIO) pin and describes the interrupt attributes of this pin.

## -struct-fields

### -field BankId

The identifier for the bank that contains the GPIO pin. If M is the number of banks in the GPIO controller, **BankId** is an integer in the range 0 to M–1. The GPIO framework extension (GpioClx) previously obtained the number of banks in the controller from the [CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation](./nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_query_controller_basic_information.md) event callback function. For more information, see Remarks in [CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION](./ns-gpioclx-_client_controller_basic_information.md).

### -field PinNumber

The bank-relative pin number. If N is the number pins in this bank, *PinNumber* is an integer in the range 0 to N–1. GpioClx previously obtained the number of pins in each bank from the *CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation* event callback function. For more information, see the description of the **NumberOfPinsPerBank** member in [CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION](./ns-gpioclx-_client_controller_basic_information.md).

### -field Flags

A set of flags that control the configuration of the GPIO pins. No flags are currently defined for this member.

### -field InterruptMode

Whether the interrupt request from this GPIO pin is level-sensitive or edge-triggered. This member is set to one of the following values:

- **LevelSensitive**

- **Latched**

For more information, see [KINTERRUPT_MODE](../wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_mode.md).

### -field Polarity

Whether the interrupt line from this GPIO pin is active-high or active-low. This member is set to one of the following values:

- **InterruptActiveHigh**

- **InterruptRisingEdge**

- **InterruptActiveLow**

- **InterruptFallingEdge**

- **InterruptActiveBoth**

For more information, see [KINTERRUPT_POLARITY](../wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_polarity.md).

### -field PullConfiguration

Whether this GPIO pin is pulled up or pulled down. This member is typically set to one of the following system-defined constants:

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDEFAULT**

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLUP**

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDOWN**

- **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLNONE**

If none of these constants appropriately describes the pin configuration, this member can be set to a vendor-defined constant in the range 128-255. For more information about these constants, see [GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION]().

### -field DebounceTimeout

The debounce time in units of 10 microseconds. For example, a debounce time of 5.84 milliseconds is specified as 584. The debounce time is the time required for an input signal to stabilize at a high level after the start of a low-to-high transition, or at a low level after the start of a high-to-low transition. For example, if an interrupt signal is generated by a mechanical switch, the debounce time is the time required for the metal contact in the switch to stop bouncing after the switch is turned on or off.

### -field VendorData

A pointer to a caller-allocated buffer that contains vendor-defined data for this GPIO pin. This member is optional and is set to NULL if no vendor-defined data is available. For more information about vendor-defined data, see the description of the *GPIO connection descriptor* in the [ACPI 5.0 specification](https://uefi.org/specifications).

### -field VendorDataLength

The size, in bytes, of the data buffer that is pointed to by the **VendorData** member.

## -remarks

The [CLIENT_EnableInterrupt](./nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_enable_interrupt.md) and [CLIENT_UnmaskInterrupt](./nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_unmask_interrupt.md) event callback functions use a **GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS** structure to specify a GPIO pin and to describe the interrupt attributes of this pin.

The **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_*XXX*** constants specify whether a general-purpose I/O (GPIO) pin is pulled up or pulled down.

```cpp
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_DEFAULT (0x0)
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLUP (0x1)
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDOWN (0x2)
#define GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_NONE (0x3)
```

The **PullConfiguration** member of the **GPIO_ENABLE_INTERRUPT_PARAMETERS** structure is set to a **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_*XXX*** constant.

If none of the system-defined **GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_*XXX*** constants appropriately describes the pin configuration, this member can be set to a vendor-defined constant in the range 128 to 255.

## -see-also

[CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION](./ns-gpioclx-_client_controller_basic_information.md)

[CLIENT_EnableInterrupt](./nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_enable_interrupt.md)

[CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation](./nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_query_controller_basic_information.md)

[CLIENT_UnmaskInterrupt](./nc-gpioclx-gpio_client_unmask_interrupt.md)

[KINTERRUPT_MODE](../wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_mode.md)

[KINTERRUPT_POLARITY](../wdm/ne-wdm-_kinterrupt_polarity.md)