---
UID: NS:gpioclx._GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS
title: "_GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS"
author: windows-driver-content
description: The GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS structure describes a logical connection to a set of general-purpose I/O (GPIO) pins and specifies whether to configure these pins as data inputs or outputs.
old-location: gpio\gpio_connect_io_pins_parameters.htm
old-project: GPIO
ms.assetid: C8A156F4-3150-4241-947E-B0A6927F2BFE
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 12/14/2017
ms.keywords: "*PGPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS, gpioclx/PGPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS, GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS structure [Parallel Ports], GPIO.gpio_connect_io_pins_parameters, PGPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS structure pointer [Parallel Ports], GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS, PGPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS, gpioclx/GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS, _GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS"
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: struct
req.header: gpioclx.h
req.include-header: 
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: Supported starting with Windows 8.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: PASSIVE_LEVEL
topictype:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
apitype:
-	HeaderDef
apilocation:
-	Gpioclx.h
apiname:
-	GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS, *PGPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS
---

# _GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS structure


## -description


The <b>GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS</b> structure describes a logical connection to a set of general-purpose I/O (GPIO) pins and specifies whether to configure these pins as data inputs or outputs.


## -syntax


````
typedef struct _GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS {
  BANK_ID                   BankId;
  PPIN_NUMBER               PinNumberTable;
  USHORT                    PinCount;
  GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_MODE ConnectMode;
  UCHAR                     PullConfiguration;
  USHORT                    DebounceTimeout;
  USHORT                    DriveStrength;
  PVOID                     VendorData;
  ULONG                     VendorDataLength;
  ULONG                     ConnectFlags;
} GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS, *PGPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS;
````


## -struct-fields




### -field BankId

The identifier for the bank that contains the GPIO pins. If M is the number of banks in the GPIO controller, <b>BankId</b> is an integer in the range 0 to M–1. The GPIO framework extension (GpioClx) previously obtained the number of banks in the controller from the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439399">CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation</a> event callback function. For more information, see Remarks in <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439358">CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION</a>.


### -field PinNumberTable

A pointer to an array of PIN_NUMBER values. Each array element specifies the number of a GPIO pin to connect to. If N is the number of pins in this bank, the pins are numbered 0 to N–1. The number of elements in this array is specified by the <b>PinCount</b> member.


### -field PinCount

The number of elements in the <b>PinNumberTable</b> array.


### -field ConnectMode

Whether the GPIO pins in the new connection should be configured as inputs or as outputs. The value of this parameter is <b>ConnectModeInput</b> for a read-only connection, <b>ConnectModeOutput</b> for a write-only connection, and (<b>ConnectModeInput</b> | <b>ConnectModeOutput</b>) for a read/write connection. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439505">GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_MODE</a>.


### -field PullConfiguration

Whether the GPIO pin is pulled up or pulled down. This member is typically set to one of the following system-defined constants:
<ul>
<li><b>GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDEFAULT</b></li>
<li><b>GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLUP</b></li>
<li><b>GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLDOWN</b></li>
<li><b>GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_PULLNONE</b></li>
</ul>If none of these constants appropriately describes the pin configuration, this member can be set to a vendor-defined constant in the range 128-255. For more information about these constants, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/B8091F53-C9B7-4A22-BDE3-4156370ABA83">GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_XXX</a>.


### -field DebounceTimeout

The debounce time in units of 10 microseconds. For example, a debounce time of 5.84 milliseconds is specified as 584. If an input signal is generated by a mechanical switch, the metal contact in the switch tends to bounce for a brief time after the switch is turned on or off. The debounce time is the minimum time that the level of the input signal must remain stable before the signal can be interpreted as a valid high or low level.


### -field DriveStrength

The drive strength of the GPIO pin in units of 10 microamperes. For example, a drive strength of 1.21 milliamperes is specified as 121.


### -field VendorData

A pointer to a caller-allocated buffer that contains vendor-specific data obtained from the ACPI firmware for the hardware platform. This data is copied from the <b>VendorData</b> field of the GPIO resource descriptor that describes the data I/O connection between the peripheral device and a set of GPIO pins on the GPIO controller. This member is optional and is set to NULL if the firmware does not supply vendor-specific data for this connection.


### -field VendorDataLength

The size, in bytes, of the data buffer that is pointed to by the <b>VendorData</b> member. If <b>VendorData</b> is NULL, <b>VendorDataLength</b> is set to zero.


### -field ConnectFlags

A set of flags that control the configuration of the GPIO pins. No flags are currently defined for this member.


## -remarks


The <i>ClientParameters</i> parameter to the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439347">CLIENT_ConnectIoPins</a> event callback routine is a pointer to a <b>GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS</b> structure.



## -see-also

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439358">CLIENT_CONTROLLER_BASIC_INFORMATION</a>

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439505">GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_MODE</a>

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439347">CLIENT_ConnectIoPins</a>

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh439399">CLIENT_QueryControllerBasicInformation</a>

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/B8091F53-C9B7-4A22-BDE3-4156370ABA83">GPIO_PIN_PULL_CONFIGURATION_XXX</a>

 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [GPIO\parports]:%20GPIO_CONNECT_IO_PINS_PARAMETERS structure%20 RELEASE:%20(12/14/2017)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

