---
UID: NS:dispmprt._DXGKRNL_INTERFACE
title: DXGKRNL_INTERFACE (dispmprt.h)
description: The DXGKRNL_INTERFACE structure contains a handle to a display adapter and a set of function pointers.
old-location: display\dxgkrnl_interface2.htm
tech.root: display
ms.date: 05/31/2022
keywords: ["DXGKRNL_INTERFACE structure"]
ms.keywords: "*PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE, DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION_VISTA, DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION_VISTA_SP1, DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION_VISTA_WIN7, DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION_WIN8, DXGKRNL_INTERFACE, DXGKRNL_INTERFACE structure [Display Devices], DmStructs_86ab8b5f-f30b-4ad3-ac4d-34fc3a864f27.xml, PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE, PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE structure pointer [Display Devices], _DXGKRNL_INTERFACE, display.dxgkrnl_interface2, dispmprt/DXGKRNL_INTERFACE, dispmprt/PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE"
req.header: dispmprt.h
req.include-header: Dispmprt.h
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: Windows Vista
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: PASSIVE_LEVEL
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: DXGKRNL_INTERFACE, *PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE
ms.custom: 19H1
f1_keywords:
 - _DXGKRNL_INTERFACE
 - dispmprt/_DXGKRNL_INTERFACE
 - PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE
 - dispmprt/PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE
 - DXGKRNL_INTERFACE
 - dispmprt/DXGKRNL_INTERFACE
topic_type:
 - APIRef
 - kbSyntax
api_type:
 - HeaderDef
api_location:
 - Dispmprt.h
api_name:
 - _DXGKRNL_INTERFACE
 - PDXGKRNL_INTERFACE
 - DXGKRNL_INTERFACE
dev_langs:
 - c++
---

# DXGKRNL_INTERFACE structure

## -description

The **DXGKRNL_INTERFACE** structure contains a handle to a display adapter and a set of pointers to functions implemented by the display miniport driver.

## -struct-fields

### -field Size

An integer that indicates the size, in bytes, of this structure.

### -field Version

A positive integer that indicates the version of the functional interface implemented by the display port driver. **Version** can be one of the **DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION_*XXX*** values defined in *D3dukmdt.h*.

### -field DeviceHandle

A handle, generated by the display port driver, that represents a display adapter. The display miniport driver passes the handle as an argument each time it calls any of the functions in **DXGKRNL_INTERFACE**.

### -field DxgkCbEvalAcpiMethod

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbEvalAcpiMethod**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_eval_acpi_method.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbGetDeviceInformation

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbGetDeviceInformation**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_get_device_information.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbIndicateChildStatus

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbIndicateChildStatus**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_indicate_child_status.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbMapMemory

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbMapMemory**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_map_memory.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbQueueDpc

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbQueueDpc**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_queue_dpc.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbQueryServices

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbQueryServices**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_query_services.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbReadDeviceSpace

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbReadDeviceSpace**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_read_device_space.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbSynchronizeExecution

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbSynchronizeExecution**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_synchronize_execution.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbUnmapMemory

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbUnmapMemory**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_unmap_memory.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbWriteDeviceSpace

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbWriteDeviceSpace**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_write_device_space.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbIsDevicePresent

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbIsDevicePresent**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_is_device_present.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbGetHandleData

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbGetHandleData**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_gethandledata.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbGetHandleParent

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbGetHandleParent**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_gethandleparent.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbEnumHandleChildren

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbEnumHandleChildren**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_enumhandlechildren.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbNotifyInterrupt

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbNotifyInterrupt**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_notify_interrupt.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbNotifyDpc

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbNotifyDpc**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_notify_dpc.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbQueryVidPnInterface

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbQueryVidPnInterface**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_queryvidpninterface.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbQueryMonitorInterface

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbQueryMonitorInterface**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_querymonitorinterface.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbGetCaptureAddress

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbGetCaptureAddress**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_getcaptureaddress.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbLogEtwEvent

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbLogEtwEvent**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_log_etw_event.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbExcludeAdapterAccess

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbExcludeAdapterAccess**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_exclude_adapter_access.md) function.

### -field DxgkCbCreateContextAllocation

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbCreateContextAllocation**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_createcontextallocation.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbDestroyContextAllocation

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbDestroyContextAllocation**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_destroycontextallocation.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbSetPowerComponentActive

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbSetPowerComponentActive**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_setpowercomponentactive.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbSetPowerComponentIdle

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbSetPowerComponentIdle**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_setpowercomponentidle.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbAcquirePostDisplayOwnership

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbAcquirePostDisplayOwnership**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_acquire_post_display_ownership.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbPowerRuntimeControlRequest

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbPowerRuntimeControlRequest**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_powerruntimecontrolrequest.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbSetPowerComponentLatency

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbSetPowerComponentLatency**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_setpowercomponentlatency.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbSetPowerComponentResidency

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbSetPowerComponentResidency**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_setpowercomponentresidency.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbCompleteFStateTransition

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DxgkCbCompleteFStateTransition**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_completefstatetransition.md) function. Supported starting with Windows 8.

### -field DxgkCbCompletePStateTransition

Reserved for system use. Do not use in your driver. Supported starting with Windows 8.1.

### -field DxgkCbMapContextAllocation

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_MAPCONTEXTALLOCATION**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_mapcontextallocation.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.0.

### -field DxgkCbUpdateContextAllocation

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_UPDATECONTEXTALLOCATION**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_updatecontextallocation.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.0.

### -field DxgkCbReserveGpuVirtualAddressRange

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_RESERVEGPUVIRTUALADDRESSRANGE**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_reservegpuvirtualaddressrange.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.0.

### -field DxgkCbAcquireHandleData

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_ACQUIREHANDLEDATA**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_acquirehandledata.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.0.

### -field DxgkCbReleaseHandleData

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_RELEASEHANDLEDATA**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_releasehandledata.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.0.

### -field DxgkCbHardwareContentProtectionTeardown

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_HARDWARECONTENTPROTECTIONTEARDOWN**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_hardwarecontentprotectionteardown.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.0.

### -field DxgkCbMultiPlaneOverlayDisabled

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_MULTIPLANEOVERLAYDISABLED**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_multiplaneoverlaydisabled.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.1.

### -field DxgkCbMitigatedRangeUpdate

A pointer to the display port driver's **DXGKCB_MITIGATEDRANGEUPDATE** function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.1.

### -field DxgkCbInvalidateHwContext

A pointer to the display port driver's **DXGKCB_INVALIDATEHWCONTEXT** function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.2.

### -field DxgkCbIndicateConnectorChange

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_INDICATE_CONNECTOR_CHANGE**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_indicate_connector_change.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.2.

### -field DxgkCbUnblockUEFIFrameBufferRanges

A pointer to the display port driver's **DXGKCB_UNBLOCKUEFIFRAMEBUFFERRANGES** function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.2.

### -field DxgkCbAcquirePostDisplayOwnership2

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_ACQUIRE_POST_DISPLAY_OWNERSHIP2**](../dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_acquire_post_display_ownership2.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.2.

### -field DxgkCbSetProtectedSessionStatus

A pointer to the display port driver's **DXGKCB_SETPROTECTEDSESSIONSTATUS** function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.3.

### -field DxgkCbAllocateContiguousMemory

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_ALLOCATECONTIGUOUSMEMORY**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_allocatecontiguousmemory.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbFreeContiguousMemory

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_FREECONTIGUOUSMEMORY**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_freecontiguousmemory.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbAllocatePagesForMdl

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_ALLOCATEPAGESFORMDL**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_allocatepagesformdl.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbFreePagesFromMdl

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_FREEPAGESFROMMDL**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_freepagesfrommdl.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbPinFrameBufferForSave

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_PINFRAMEBUFFERFORSAVE**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_pinframebufferforsave.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbUnpinFrameBufferForSave

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_UNPINFRAMEBUFFERFORSAVE**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_unpinframebufferforsave.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbMapFrameBufferPointer

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_MAPFRAMEBUFFERPOINTER**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_mapframebufferpointer.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbUnmapFrameBufferPointer

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_UNMAPFRAMEBUFFERPOINTER**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_unmapframebufferpointer.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbMapMdlToIoMmu

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_MAPMDLTOIOMMU**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_mapmdltoiommu.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbUnmapMdlFromIoMmu

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_UNMAPMDLFROMIOMMU**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_mapmdltoiommu.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbReportDiagnostic

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_REPORT_DIAGNOSTIC**](../dispmprt/nc-dispmprt-dxgkcb_report_diagnostic.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.4.

### -field DxgkCbSignalEvent

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_SIGNALEVENT**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_signalevent.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.5.

### -field DxgkCbIsFeatureEnabled

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_ISFEATUREENABLED**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_isfeatureenabled.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.6.

### -field DxgkCbSaveMemoryForHotUpdate

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_SAVEMEMORYFORHOTUPDATE**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_savememoryforhotupdate.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.6.

### -field DxgkCbNotifyCursorSupportChange

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_NOTIFYCURSORSUPPORTCHANGE**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_notifycursorsupportchange.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.8.

### -field DxgkCbQueryFeatureSupport

A pointer to the display port driver's **DXGKCB_QUERYFEATURESUPPORT** function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbCreatePhysicalMemoryObject

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_CREATEPHYSICALMEMORYOBJECT**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_createphysicalmemoryobject.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbDestroyPhysicalMemoryObject

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_DESTROYPHYSICALMEMORYOBJECT**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_destroyphysicalmemoryobject.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbMapPhysicalMemory

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_MAPPHYSICALMEMORY**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_mapphysicalmemory.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbUnmapPhysicalMemory

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_UNMAPPHYSICALMEMORY**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_unmapphysicalmemory.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbAllocateAdl

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_ALLOCATEADL**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_allocateadl.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbFreeAdl

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_FREEADL**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_freeadl.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbOpenPhysicalMemoryObject

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_OPENPHYSICALMEMORYOBJECT**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_openphysicalmemoryobject.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbClosePhysicalMemoryObject

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_CLOSEPHYSICALMEMORYOBJECT**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_closephysicalmemoryobject.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbPinFrameBufferForSave2

A pointer to the display port driver's [**DXGKCB_PINFRAMEBUFFERFORSAVE2**](../d3dkmddi/nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkcb_pinframebufferforsave2.md) function. Supported starting with WDDM 2.9.

### -field DxgkCbDisconnectDoorbell

A pointer to the display port driver's **DXGKCB_DISCONNECTDOORBELL** function. Supported starting with WDDM 3.1.

## -remarks

 The functions are implemented by the display port driver and called by the display miniport driver. The display port driver provides the display miniport driver with the handle and function pointers by passing a **DXGKRNL_INTERFACE** structure to [**DxgkDdiStartDevice**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_start_device.md).

## -see-also

[**DxgkDdiStartDevice**](nc-dispmprt-dxgkddi_start_device.md)

[DriverEntry of Display Miniport Driver](/windows-hardware/drivers/display/driverentry-of-display-miniport-driver)
