---
UID: NS:dxva._DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData
title: "_DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData"
author: windows-driver-content
description: The DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData structure describes the display mode of the signal that is transmitted over the connector associated with a DirectX VA COPP device.
old-location: display\dxva_coppstatusdisplaydata.htm
old-project: display
ms.assetid: 377845f7-772f-4361-8fcb-10c432fa7abf
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 12/29/2017
ms.keywords: "_DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData, DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData, display.dxva_coppstatusdisplaydata, dxvaref_93230a15-ba58-4da6-8577-eb1f2bf8528e.xml, dxva/DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData, DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData structure [Display Devices]"
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: struct
req.header: dxva.h
req.include-header: Dxva.h
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: This structure applies only to Windows Server 2003 with SP1 and later, and Windows XP with SP2 and later.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: 
topictype:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
apitype:
-	HeaderDef
apilocation:
-	dxva.h
apiname:
-	DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData
---

# _DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData structure


## -description


The DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData structure describes the display mode of the signal that is transmitted over the connector associated with a DirectX VA COPP device.


## -syntax


````
typedef struct _DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData {
  GUID  rApp;
  ULONG dwFlags;
  ULONG DisplayWidth;
  ULONG DisplayHeight;
  ULONG Format;
  ULONG d3dFormat;
  ULONG FreqNumerator;
  ULONG FreqDenominator;
} DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData;
````


## -struct-fields




### -field rApp

Specifies a 128-bit random number, used once. This random number is generated by the requesting application and supplied to the display driver in the <b>rApp</b> member of the <a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusinput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusInput</a> structure.


### -field dwFlags

Specifies additional status information that might be relevant to the calling application. The display driver should set <b>dwFlags</b> to the COPP_StatusNormal (0x00) value from the <b>COPP_StatusFlags</b> enumeration type or to a valid ORed combination of the following COPP_StatusFlags:
<ul>
<li>
COPP_LinkLost (0x01)

</li>
<li>
COPP_RenegotiationRequired (0x02)

</li>
</ul>

### -field DisplayWidth

Specifies the current display width in pixels.


### -field DisplayHeight

Specifies the current display height in pixels.


### -field Format

Specifies how data is formatted on the display as defined by a <a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_extendedformat.md">DXVA_ExtendedFormat</a> structure.


### -field d3dFormat

Specifies the Direct3D surface format of the display. This is a value from the <b>D3DFORMAT</b> enumeration type. For more information, see the latest DirectX SDK documentation.


### -field FreqNumerator

Specifies the numerator for the refresh rate of the current display mode.


### -field FreqDenominator

Specifies the denominator for the refresh rate of the current display mode.


## -remarks


The display driver returns display status through the <i>pOutput</i> parameter of <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff539652">COPPQueryStatus</a>. The <a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusoutput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusOutput</a> structure describes the returned status information. The display driver should cast the display status to a pointer to a DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData structure and return the status information in the <b>COPPStatus</b> member of DXVA_COPPStatusOutput. 

Because the DXVA_COPPQueryDisplayData request returns display information for the connector associated with the COPP device, this display information is not necessarily the same as the Windows desktop display mode. For example, if the connector associated with the COPP device is S-Video and the Windows desktop is set to 1024 x 768 at 85 Hz, then the DXVA_COPPQueryDisplayData request should return the resolution of the S-Video signal (720 x 480 at 60/1.01 Hz interlaced) and not the desktop resolution. 

The refresh rate of the current display mode is expressed as a numerator/denominator pair. For example, 72 Hz is expressed by setting <b>FreqNumerator</b> to 72 and <b>FreqDenominator</b> to 1, and NTSC TV modes are expressed by setting <b>FreqNumerator</b> to 60,000 and <b>FreqDenominator</b> to 1,001.



## -see-also

<a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_extendedformat.md">DXVA_ExtendedFormat</a>

<a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusoutput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusOutput</a>

<a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusinput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusInput</a>

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff539652">COPPQueryStatus</a>

<a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppsetprotectionlevelcmddata.md">DXVA_COPPSetProtectionLevelCmdData</a>

 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [display\display]:%20DXVA_COPPStatusDisplayData structure%20 RELEASE:%20(12/29/2017)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

