---
UID: NS:dxva._DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData
title: "_DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData"
author: windows-driver-content
description: The DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData structure describes a High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP) receiver or repeater key selection vector (KSV).
old-location: display\dxva_coppstatushdcpkeydata.htm
old-project: display
ms.assetid: 2e8024b4-69db-4f10-b33f-a6b817aa0aa9
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 12/29/2017
ms.keywords: dxva/DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData, _DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData, DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData, DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData structure [Display Devices], dxvaref_6aca4a16-16df-46ab-be65-b6033258f781.xml, display.dxva_coppstatushdcpkeydata
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: struct
req.header: dxva.h
req.include-header: Dxva.h
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: This structure applies only to Windows Server 2003 with SP1 and later, and Windows XP with SP2 and later.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: 
topictype:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
apitype:
-	HeaderDef
apilocation:
-	dxva.h
apiname:
-	DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData
---

# _DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData structure


## -description


The DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData structure describes a High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP) receiver or repeater key selection vector (KSV).


## -syntax


````
typedef struct _DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData {
  GUID  rApp;
  ULONG dwFlags;
  ULONG dwHDCPFlags;
  GUID  BKey;
  GUID  Reserved1;
  GUID  Reserved2;
} DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData;
````


## -struct-fields




### -field rApp

Specifies a 128-bit random number, used once. This random number is generated by the requesting application and supplied to the display driver in the <b>rApp</b> member of the <a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusinput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusInput</a> structure.


### -field dwFlags

Specifies additional status information that might be relevant to the calling application. The display driver should set <b>dwFlags</b> to the COPP_StatusNormal (0x00) value from the <b>COPP_StatusFlags</b> enumeration type or to a valid ORed combination of the following COPP_StatusFlags:
<ul>
<li>
COPP_LinkLost (0x01)

</li>
<li>
COPP_RenegotiationRequired (0x02)

</li>
</ul>

### -field dwHDCPFlags

Specifies the current HDCP characteristics of the device connected to a Digital Video Interface (DVI) or High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) output connector. The display driver can set <b>dwHDCPFlags</b> to COPP_HDCPRepeater (0x01) from the <b>COPP_StatusHDCPFlags</b> enumeration type to indicate that the device is a repeater.


### -field BKey

Specifies  the HDCP receiver or repeater KSV (Bksv), as defined by HDCP Specification Revision 1.1, in the least significant 40 bits.


### -field Reserved1

Reserved. Should be set to zero (GUID_NULL).


### -field Reserved2

Reserved. Should be set to zero (GUID_NULL).


## -remarks


The display driver returns status about the HDCP key through the <i>pOutput</i> parameter of <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff539652">COPPQueryStatus</a>. The <a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusoutput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusOutput</a> structure describes the returned status information. The display driver should cast the HDCP key status to a pointer to a DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData structure and return the status information in the <b>COPPStatus</b> member of DXVA_COPPStatusOutput. 

Applications initiate a query for HDCP key data to determine if the receiver or repeater device is revoked; they can then disable protected content flow to the device. Applications must obtain lists of revoked KSVs by processing System Renewability Messages (SRMs). In coordination with <a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=38728">Digital Content Protection LLC</a>, owners of HDCP licensing applications should not let protected content flow to HDCP repeaters for COPP version 1.0.



## -see-also

<a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusinput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusInput</a>

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff539652">COPPQueryStatus</a>

<a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppstatusoutput.md">DXVA_COPPStatusOutput</a>

<a href="..\dxva\ns-dxva-_dxva_coppsetprotectionlevelcmddata.md">DXVA_COPPSetProtectionLevelCmdData</a>

 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [display\display]:%20DXVA_COPPStatusHDCPKeyData structure%20 RELEASE:%20(12/29/2017)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

