---
UID: NS:ks.KSCOMPONENTID
title: KSCOMPONENTID
author: windows-driver-content
description: The KSCOMPONENTID structure contains unique identifiers that describe an individual kernel streaming object.
old-location: stream\kscomponentid.htm
old-project: stream
ms.assetid: 37987f5a-f706-4a5d-b6f7-e726bdfd8473
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 2/23/2018
ms.keywords: "*PKSCOMPONENTID, KSCOMPONENTID, KSCOMPONENTID structure [Streaming Media Devices], PKSCOMPONENTID, PKSCOMPONENTID structure pointer [Streaming Media Devices], ks-struct_a6ed820f-c35d-411e-98a5-bd14a2141960.xml, ks/KSCOMPONENTID, ks/PKSCOMPONENTID, stream.kscomponentid"
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: struct
req.header: ks.h
req.include-header: Ks.h
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: 
topic_type:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
api_type:
-	HeaderDef
api_location:
-	ks.h
api_name:
-	KSCOMPONENTID
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: KSCOMPONENTID, *PKSCOMPONENTID
---

# KSCOMPONENTID structure


## -description


The KSCOMPONENTID structure contains unique identifiers that describe an individual kernel streaming object.


## -struct-fields




### -field Manufacturer

Specifies the unique identifier for the manufacturer of the component. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.


### -field Product

Specifies the unique identifier for the product to which the component belongs. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.


### -field Component

Specifies the unique identifier for the component. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.


### -field Name

Optionally specifies the unique identifier for the name, which may be different than the Component entry, or this may be GUID_NULL. This is generated by the manufacturer, and may be resolved to a localized string representation through a registry entry.


### -field Version

Specifies the version number for the component or product.


### -field Revision

Specifies the revision number for the component or product.


## -remarks



Supply this structure in a <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565171">KSPROPERTY_GENERAL_COMPONENTID</a> request.




## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565171">KSPROPERTY_GENERAL_COMPONENTID</a>
 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [stream\stream]:%20KSCOMPONENTID structure%20 RELEASE:%20(2/23/2018)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

