---
UID: NC:iddcx.EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2
tech.root: display
title: EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2
ms.date: 09/22/2023
targetos: Windows
description: Learn more about the EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2 callback function.
prerelease: true
req.assembly: 
req.construct-type: function
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.dll: 
req.header: iddcx.h
req.idl: 
req.include-header: 
req.irql: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.lib: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.redist: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: Windows 11, version 22H2 September Update (IddCx version 1.10)
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.target-type: 
req.type-library: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
topic_type:
 - apiref
api_type:
 - LibDef
api_location:
 - iddcx.h
api_name:
 - EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2
f1_keywords:
 - EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2
 - iddcx/EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2
dev_langs:
 - c++
helpviewer_keywords:
 - EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2
---

## -description

The OS calls **EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2** to get a list of target modes supported by the driver for a monitor connected to the endpoint. This callback is similar to [**EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES**](nc-iddcx-evt_idd_cx_monitor_query_target_modes.md), but allows the driver to report additional information for HDR10 and WCG target modes.

## -parameters

### -param MonitorObject

[in] The OS-generated context handle that identifies the monitor to generate a list of target modes for. This [IDDCX_MONITOR](/windows-hardware/drivers/display/iddcx-objects#iddcx_monitor) object was returned in a prior call to [**IddCxMonitorCreate**](nf-iddcx-iddcxmonitorcreate.md).

### -param pInArgs

[in] Pointer to a [**IDARG_IN_QUERYTARGETMODES2**](ns-iddcx-idarg_in_querytargetmodes2.md) structure that contains input arguments used by **EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2**.

### -param pOutArgs

[out] Pointer to a [**IDARG_OUT_QUERYTARGETMODES**](ns-iddcx-idarg_out_querytargetmodes.md) structure that contains output arguments generated by **EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2**.

## -returns

**EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES2** returns an [NTSTATUS](/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/ntstatus-values) value. If the operation is successful, it returns STATUS_SUCCESS or another status value for which NT_SUCCESS(status) equals TRUE. Otherwise, it returns an appropriate NTSTATUS error code.

## -remarks

This function is similar to [**EVT_IDD_CX_PARSE_MONITOR_DESCRIPTION2**](nc-iddcx-evt_idd_cx_parse_monitor_description2.md) in that it allows drivers to report the same extra mode information. A driver that supports HDR must implement this function; drivers that don't support HDR can expose only the existing [**EVT_IDD_CX_MONITOR_QUERY_TARGET_MODES**](nc-iddcx-evt_idd_cx_monitor_query_target_modes.md) function.

The [**IDDCX_TARGET_MODE2::BitsPerComponent**](ns-iddcx-iddcx_target_mode2.md) field allows multiple formats and bit depths to be reported in a single mode. For example, a driver can report 8 and 10 bits per component in RGB by setting both **IDDCX_BITS_PER_COMPONENT_8** and **IDDCX_BITS_PER_COMPONENT_10** in **IDDCX_TARGET_MODE2::BitsPerComponent::Rgb**. A driver should only report different bits per component as unique modes if other mode details also differ.

Drivers returning modes with SDR WCG or HDR parameters will fail if they have not also reported [**IDDCX_ADAPTER_FLAGS_CAN_PROCESS_FP16**](ne-iddcx-iddcx_adapter_flags.md) in the [**IddCxAdapterInitAsync**](nf-iddcx-iddcxadapterinitasync.md) call. SDR WCG and HDR [**IDDCX_WIRE_BITS_PER_COMPONENT.BitsPerComponent**](ns-iddcx-iddcx_wire_bits_per_component.md) parameters are:

* Any value for **Rgb** other than **IDDCX_BITS_PER_COMPONENT_8**, or
* Any value for **YCbCr444**, **YCbCr422**, or **YCbCr420** other than **IDDCX_BITS_PER_COMPONENT_NONE**.

For more information about HDR support, see [IddCx version 1.10 updates](/windows-hardware/drivers/display/iddcx1.10-updates).

## -see-also

[**IDARG_IN_QUERYTARGETMODES2**](ns-iddcx-idarg_in_querytargetmodes2.md)

[**IDARG_OUT_QUERYTARGETMODES**](ns-iddcx-idarg_out_querytargetmodes.md)
