---
UID: NF:wdmsec.WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure
title: WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure function
author: windows-driver-content
description: The WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure function (or IoCreateDeviceSecure) creates a named device object and applies the specified security settings.
old-location: kernel\wdmlibiocreatedevicesecure.htm
old-project: kernel
ms.assetid: F4B06D2E-A024-4F0B-91A2-7A7775AD99DC
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 2/24/2018
ms.keywords: IoCreateDeviceSecure, WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure, WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure function [Kernel-Mode Driver Architecture], kernel.wdmlibiocreatedevicesecure, wdmsec/IoCreateDeviceSecure, wdmsec/WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: function
req.header: wdmsec.h
req.include-header: Wdmsec.h
req.target-type: Desktop
req.target-min-winverclnt: See Remarks section.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: MiniportOnlyWdmDevice, HwStorPortProhibitedDDIs
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: Wdmsec.lib
req.dll: 
req.irql: PASSIVE_LEVEL
topic_type:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
api_type:
-	LibDef
api_location:
-	Wdmsec.lib
-	Wdmsec.dll
api_name:
-	WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure
-	IoCreateDeviceSecure
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: WORK_QUEUE_ITEM, *PWORK_QUEUE_ITEM
req.product: Windows 10 or later.
---

# WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure function


## -description


The <b>WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure</b> function (or <b>IoCreateDeviceSecure</b>) creates a named device object and applies the specified security settings.


## -syntax


````
NTSTATUS WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure(
  _In_     PDRIVER_OBJECT   DriverObject,
  _In_     ULONG            DeviceExtensionSize,
  _In_opt_ PUNICODE_STRING  DeviceName,
  _In_     DEVICE_TYPE      DeviceType,
  _In_     ULONG            DeviceCharacteristics,
  _In_     BOOLEAN          Exclusive,
  _In_     PCUNICODE_STRING DefaultSDDLString,
  _In_opt_ LPCGUID          DeviceClassGuid,
           PDEVICE_OBJECT   DeviceObject
);
````


## -parameters




### -param DriverObject [in]

Pointer to the driver object for the caller. Each driver receives a pointer to its driver object in a parameter to its <a href="..\wudfwdm\nc-wudfwdm-driver_initialize.md">DriverEntry</a> routine. WDM function and filter drivers also receive a driver object pointer in their <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff540521">AddDevice</a> routines. 


### -param DeviceExtensionSize [in]

Specifies the driver-determined number of bytes to be allocated for the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/9ea59994-1112-4ae5-96a8-fa0670694b53">device extension</a> of the device object. The internal structure of the device extension is driver-defined. 


### -param DeviceName [in, optional]

Optionally points to a buffer that contains a null-terminated Unicode string that names the device object. The string must be a full path name. If a name is not supplied, the FILE_AUTOGENERATED_DEVICE_NAME flag must be present in the <i>DeviceCharacteristics</i> parameter. (To create an unnamed device object, use the <a href="..\wdm\nf-wdm-iocreatedevice.md">IoCreateDevice</a> routine.)


### -param DeviceType [in]

Specifies one of the system-defined FILE_DEVICE_<i>XXX</i> constants that indicate the type of device (such as FILE_DEVICE_DISK, FILE_DEVICE_KEYBOARD, and so on), or a vendor-defined value for a new type of device. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563821">Specifying Device Types</a>. (Because a bus driver might not have information about a device's type, a device type value for a <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/139a10e9-203b-499b-9291-8537eae9189c">PDO</a> can be specified in an <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/install/inf-addreg-directive">INF AddReg directive</a>.)


### -param DeviceCharacteristics [in]

Specifies one or more system-defined constants, ORed together, that provide additional information about the driver's device. For a list of possible device characteristics, see <a href="..\wdm\ns-wdm-_device_object.md"> DEVICE_OBJECT</a>. For more information about how to specify device characteristics, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563818">Specifying Device Characteristics</a>. Most drivers specify FILE_DEVICE_SECURE_OPEN for this parameter. 


### -param Exclusive [in]

Specifies if the device object represents an <i>exclusive device</i>. Most drivers set this value to <b>FALSE</b>. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563827">Specifying Exclusive Access to Device Objects</a>. 


### -param DefaultSDDLString [in]

Specifies a string representation for the default security settings of the device object. The security that is applied to the device object is derived from this string unless the system administrator places an override in the section of the registry identified by the <i>DeviceClassGuid</i> parameter. 

The security setting is specified in a subset of Security Descriptor Definition Language (SDDL). A set of predefined constants (SDDL_DEVOBJ_<i>XXX</i>) are also provided. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563688">Securing Device Objects</a>.


### -param DeviceClassGuid [in, optional]

Pointer to a GUID that identifies a section of the registry containing possible overrides for the <i>DefaultSDDLString</i>, <i>DeviceType</i>, <i>DeviceCharacteristics</i>, and <i>Exclusive</i> parameters. 

<div class="alert"><b>Note</b>    You should always specify a custom class GUID. You should not specify an existing class GUID. If you specify an existing class GUID, other drivers that attempt to specify that existing class GUID might fail to install or might install with incorrect security settings.</div>
<div> </div>

### -param DeviceObject

Pointer to a variable that receives a pointer to the newly created <a href="..\wdm\ns-wdm-_device_object.md">DEVICE_OBJECT</a> structure. The <b>DEVICE_OBJECT</b> structure is allocated from nonpaged pool.


## -returns



<b>WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure</b> returns STATUS_SUCCESS on success, or the appropriate NTSTATUS error code on failure. A partial list of the failure codes that could be returned by this function include:




## -remarks



<b>WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure</b> creates a named device object, applies the specified security settings, and returns a pointer to the object. The caller is responsible for deleting the object when it is no longer needed by calling <a href="..\wdm\nf-wdm-iodeletedevice.md">IoDeleteDevice</a>.

This routine is not part of the operating system. Drivers can use the routine by linking to Wdmsec.lib on Microsoft Windows 2000 and later versions of Windows. (The Wdmsec.lib library first shipped with the Microsoft Windows XP Service Pack 1 [SP1] and Windows Server 2003 editions of the Driver Development Kit [DDK] and also ships with the Windows Driver Kit [WDK].)

Any driver that creates a named device object which is not guaranteed to have its security descriptor set by the INF file must use <b>WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure</b>. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff542862">Creating a Device Object</a>. The caller is responsible for setting certain members of the returned device object. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff547807">Initializing a Device Object</a> and the device-type-specific documentation for your device.

Be careful to specify the <i>DeviceType</i> and <i>DeviceCharacteristics</i> values in the correct parameters. Both parameters use system-defined FILE_<i>XXX</i> constants and some driver writers specify the values in the wrong parameters by mistake.

The caller is responsible for setting certain fields in the returned device object, such as the <b>Flags</b> field, and for initializing the device extension with any driver-defined information. For other operations that are required on new device objects, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff547807">Initializing a Device Object</a> and the device-type-specific documentation for your device.

The GUID specified by the <i>DeviceClassGuid</i> parameter determines the device setup class for the device object. (For more information about device setup classes, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/hardware/ff552344">Device Setup Classes</a>.) Callers must provide a value so that system administrators can change the security settings for the device (for instance, to deny access to certain users). For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563755">Setting Device Object Registry Properties After Installation</a>.

Non-WDM drivers specify a new GUID, one not already in use by an existing device setup class. Generate a new GUID by using the GuidGen.exe tool that is included in the Microsoft Windows SDK.

WDM bus drivers that handle raw-mode capable devices can specify the device setup class of the device, but only if that class is guaranteed to already have been created. Otherwise, create a new GUID.

Device objects for disks, tapes, CD-ROMs, and RAM disks are given a Volume Parameter Block (VPB) that is initialized to indicate that the volume has never been mounted on the device.

If a driver's call to <b>WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure</b> returns an error, the driver should release any resources that it allocated for that device.




## -see-also

<a href="..\wdm\nf-wdm-iocreatesymboliclink.md">IoCreateSymbolicLink</a>



<a href="..\wdm\nf-wdm-iocreatedevice.md">IoCreateDevice</a>



<a href="..\wdm\nf-wdm-iodeletedevice.md">IoDeleteDevice</a>



<a href="..\wdm\ns-wdm-_device_object.md">DEVICE_OBJECT</a>



<a href="..\wdm\nf-wdm-ioattachdevicetodevicestack.md">IoAttachDeviceToDeviceStack</a>



<a href="..\wdm\nf-wdm-ioattachdevice.md">IoAttachDevice</a>



 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [kernel\kernel]:%20WdmlibIoCreateDeviceSecure function%20 RELEASE:%20(2/24/2018)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

