---
UID: NC:wdm.KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE
title: KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE (wdm.h)
description: An InterruptMessageService routine services a message-signaled interrupt.
old-location: kernel\interruptmessageservice.htm
tech.root: kernel
ms.date: 04/30/2018
keywords: ["KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE callback function"]
ms.keywords: DrvrRtns_1f39517a-fa8b-44a4-9e6c-2ecc428cd416.xml, InterruptMessageService, InterruptMessageService routine [Kernel-Mode Driver Architecture], KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE, kernel.interruptmessageservice, wdm/InterruptMessageService
req.header: wdm.h
req.include-header: Wdm.h, Ntddk.h, Ntifs.h
req.target-type: Desktop
req.target-min-winverclnt: See Remarks section.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: See Remarks section.
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: 
f1_keywords:
 - KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE
 - wdm/KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE
topic_type:
 - APIRef
 - kbSyntax
api_type:
 - UserDefined
api_location:
 - Wdm.h
api_name:
 - KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE
---

# KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE callback function


## -description

An <i>InterruptMessageService</i> routine services a message-signaled interrupt.

## -parameters

### -param Interrupt 

[in]
A pointer to the <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/eprocess">KINTERRUPT</a> structure for the interrupt. The driver received this pointer in the call to the <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex">IoConnectInterruptEx</a> routine that registered the driver's <i>InterruptMessageService</i> routine.

### -param ServiceContext 

[in]
The <i>ServiceContext</i> value that the driver passed to <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex">IoConnectInterruptEx</a> when the <i>InterruptMessageService</i> routine was registered.

### -param MessageID

The message ID for the interrupt. This value is the index for the interrupt's entry in the **MessageInfo** member array in the [**IO_INTERRUPT_MESSAGE_INFO**](./ns-wdm-_io_interrupt_message_info.md) structure that describes the driver's message-signaled interrupts.

## -returns

The <i>InterruptMessageService</i> routine returns <b>TRUE</b> if the interrupt is one handled by the <i>InterruptMessageService</i> routine. Otherwise, it returns <b>FALSE</b>.

## -remarks

Drivers use <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex">IoConnectInterruptEx</a> to register an <i>InterruptMessageService</i> routine to handle their message-signaled interrupts. A driver can subsequently unregister the routine by calling <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-iodisconnectinterruptex">IoDisconnectInterruptEx</a>. Message-signaled interrupts are supported starting with Windows Vista.

The system can call an <i>InterruptMessageService</i> routine even when the routine's interrupt has not occurred. For example, if a message-signaled interrupt is shared, <i>InterruptMessageService</i> can be called for interrupts belonging to other devices. The routine must check whether the value for the <i>ServiceContext</i> parameter matches the value passed to <b>IoConnectInterruptEx</b>. If the value does match, <i>InterruptMessageService</i> handles the interrupt and returns <b>TRUE</b>. Otherwise, <i>InterruptMessageService</i> does not handle the interrupt and returns <b>FALSE</b>.

A driver that uses MSI (PCI 2.2) must examine the **MessageID** parameter to distinguish between the different messages generated by the device, since they all share the same interrupt resource
 (and therefore the same *InterruptMessageService*> callback).

Note that if the system receives multiple identical interrupts over a short time interval, it can combine these into a single call to <i>InterruptMessageService</i>. The routine must be written to handle multiple identical interrupts within a single call.

Message-signaled interrupts are similar in behavior to edge-triggered interrupts. The device sends an interrupt request but does not receive any hardware acknowledgment that the request was received.

An <i>InterruptMessageService</i> executes at an IRQL greater than or equal to the maximum device IRQL (DIRQL) for every interrupt the routine handles.


#### Examples

To define an <i>InterruptMessageService</i> callback routine, you must first provide a function declaration that identifies the type of callback routine you're defining. Windows provides a set of callback function types for drivers. Declaring a function using the callback function types helps <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/code-analysis-for-drivers">Code Analysis for Drivers</a>, <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/static-driver-verifier">Static Driver Verifier</a> (SDV), and other verification tools find errors, and it's a requirement for writing drivers for the Windows operating system.

For example, to define an <i>InterruptMessageService</i> callback routine that is named <code>MyInterruptMessageService</code>, use the KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE type as shown in this code example:


```
KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE MyInterruptMessageService;
```

Then, implement your callback routine as follows:


```
_Use_decl_annotations_
BOOLEAN
  MyInterruptMessageService(
    struct _KINTERRUPT  *Interrupt,
    PVOID  ServiceContext,
    ULONG  MessageId 
    )
  {
      // Function body
  }
```

The KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE function type is defined in the Wdm.h header file. To more accurately identify errors when you run the code analysis tools, be sure to add the _Use_decl_annotations_ annotation to your function definition. The _Use_decl_annotations_ annotation ensures that the annotations that are applied to the KMESSAGE_SERVICE_ROUTINE function type in the header file are used. For more information about the requirements for function declarations, see <a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/declaring-functions-using-function-role-types-for-wdm-drivers">Declaring Functions by Using Function Role Types for WDM Drivers</a>. For information about _Use_decl_annotations_, see <a href="/visualstudio/code-quality/annotating-function-behavior">Annotating Function Behavior</a>.

<div class="code"></div>

## -see-also

[Using Interrupt Resource Descriptors](/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/using-interrupt-resource-descriptors)


<a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/ns-wdm-_io_interrupt_message_info">IO_INTERRUPT_MESSAGE_INFO</a>



<a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-ioconnectinterruptex">IoConnectInterruptEx</a>



<a href="/windows-hardware/drivers/ddi/wdm/nf-wdm-iodisconnectinterruptex">IoDisconnectInterruptEx</a>

