---
UID: NC:irb.IDE_HW_INTERRUPT
title: IDE_HW_INTERRUPT
author: windows-driver-content
description: The IdeHwInterrupt miniport driver routine handles interrupts from the host bus adapter (HBA) to which the controller for the miniport driver is connected.
old-location: storage\idehwinterrupt.htm
old-project: storage
ms.assetid: a061d993-78fc-45d8-857b-7269c3593847
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 1/10/2018
ms.keywords: WdmlibIoGetAffinityInterrupt
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: callback
req.header: irb.h
req.include-header: Irb.h
req.target-type: Desktop
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.alt-api: IdeHwInterrupt
req.alt-loc: irb.h
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: 
req.typenames: LUID
---

# IDE_HW_INTERRUPT callback



## -description
The <b><i>IdeHwInterrupt</i></b> miniport driver routine handles interrupts from the host bus adapter (HBA) to which the controller for the miniport driver is connected. 



## -prototype

````
IDE_HW_INTERRUPT IdeHwInterrupt;

BOOLEAN IdeHwInterrupt(
  _In_ PVOID ChannelExtension
)
{ ... }
````


## -parameters

### -param ChannelExtension [in]

A pointer to the channel extension.


## -returns
<b><i>AtaHwInterrrupt</i></b> returns <b>TRUE</b> if the interrupt is generated by one of the controller's channels. If a channel did not generate the interrupt, the routine should return <b>FALSE</b> as quickly as possible. 


## -remarks
The <b><i>IdeHwInterrupt</i></b> routine completes interrupt-driven I/O operations. 

If the indicated channel did not generate the interrupt, the miniport driver should make a second (recursive) call to the <b><i>IdeHwInterrupt</i></b> routine to handle interrupts that are intended for the controller's other channel.

If the miniport driver requires a large amount of time to process the interrupt, it must follow these steps:

Dismiss the interrupt on the HBA.

Disable interrupts on the channel that is indicated by the <i>ChannelExtension</i> parameter. 

Request a worker routine by using <a href="..\irb\nf-irb-ataportrequestworkerroutine.md">AtaPortRequestWorkerRoutine</a>. 

Complete additional processing in the worker routine.

Enable interrupts on the channel.

The following ATA port routines must not be called from the <b><i>IdeHwInterrupt</i></b> routine:


<a href="..\irb\nf-irb-ataportcompleteallactiverequests.md">AtaPortCompleteAllActiveRequests</a>



<a href="..\irb\nf-irb-ataportdevicebusy.md">AtaPortDeviceBusy</a>


However, the miniport driver can request a worker routine and make calls in the worker routine.

The worker routine must clear the interrupt on the HBA before it returns <b>TRUE</b>.


## -see-also
<dl>
<dt>
<a href="..\irb\nf-irb-ataportcompleteallactiverequests.md">AtaPortCompleteAllActiveRequests</a>
</dt>
<dt>
<a href="..\irb\nf-irb-ataportdevicebusy.md">AtaPortDeviceBusy</a>
</dt>
<dt>
<a href="..\irb\nf-irb-ataportrequestworkerroutine.md">AtaPortRequestWorkerRoutine</a>
</dt>
</dl>
 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [storage\storage]:%20IdeHwInterrupt routine%20 RELEASE:%20(1/10/2018)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

