---
UID: NS:d3dkmdt._DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS
title: "_DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS"
author: windows-driver-content
description: The DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure contains parameters that are used to retrieve information from a protected output object in a call to the DxgkDdiOPMGetInformation function.
old-location: display\dxgkmdt_opm_get_info_parameters.htm
old-project: display
ms.assetid: 88e12eb6-6015-44bc-b170-cc152fdd1397
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 2/26/2018
ms.keywords: "*PDXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure [Display Devices], DmStructs_e6abe7a0-8285-4f66-97a3-d2c04c70bcd3.xml, PDXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS, PDXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure pointer [Display Devices], _DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS, d3dkmdt/DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS, d3dkmdt/PDXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS, display.dxgkmdt_opm_get_info_parameters"
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: struct
req.header: d3dkmdt.h
req.include-header: D3dkmdt.h
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: Available in Windows Vista and later versions of the Windows operating systems.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: 
topic_type:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
api_type:
-	HeaderDef
api_location:
-	d3dkmdt.h
api_name:
-	DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS, *PDXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS
---

# _DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure


## -description


The DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure contains parameters that are used to retrieve information from a protected output object in a call to the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/3d6559e5-776e-4fc0-b99a-8818cbcc289d">DxgkDdiOPMGetInformation</a> function.


## -struct-fields




### -field omac

A <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff560887">DXGKMDT_OPM_OMAC</a> structure that contains a One-key Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)-mode message authentication code (OMAC) for message authenticity. For more information about OMAC, see the <a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=70417">OMAC-1 algorithm</a>. The OMAC-1 parameters that OPM and COPP use are:

<i>E</i> = AES (Advanced Encryption Standard)

<i>t</i> = 128 bits

<i>K</i> = The 128-bit key that the display miniport driver receives when <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/285521c7-4034-4db8-9441-6c4eaee27ee3">DxgkDdiOPMSetSigningKeyAndSequenceNumbers</a> is called.

<i>n</i> = 128 bits 

For information about AES, see the <a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=70411">RSA Laboratories</a> website. 


### -field rnRandomNumber

A <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff560906">DXGKMDT_OPM_RANDOM_NUMBER</a> structure that contains a protected output object's 128-bit cryptographically secure random number. This random number is generated by an application and supplied to the display miniport driver in <b>rnRandomNumber</b> in a call to the driver's <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/3d6559e5-776e-4fc0-b99a-8818cbcc289d">DxgkDdiOPMGetInformation</a> function.   


### -field guidInformation

The GUID that is used to retrieve the information. <b>guidInformation</b> can be set to one of the following GUIDs:

<ul>
<li>
DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CURRENT_HDCP_SRM_VERSION

</li>
<li>
DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CONNECTOR_TYPE

</li>
<li>
DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_SUPPORTED_PROTECTION_TYPES

</li>
<li>
DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_VIRTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL

</li>
<li>
DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL

</li>
<li>
DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_OUTPUT_FORMAT

</li>
<li>
DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ADAPTER_BUS_TYPE

</li>
<li>
Supported in Windows 7 and later versions.

DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_DVI_CHARACTERISTICS

</li>
<li>
Supported in Windows 7 and later versions.

DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_OUTPUT_ID

</li>
</ul>

### -field ulSequenceNumber

A sequence number. For the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/3d6559e5-776e-4fc0-b99a-8818cbcc289d">DxgkDdiOPMGetInformation</a> function to process an information request, the value in <b>ulSequenceNumber</b> must match the current 4-byte sequence number that the display miniport driver stores. If a match is not detected, <i>DxgkDdiOPMGetInformation</i> returns an error code. If a match is detected, <i>DxgkDdiOPMGetInformation</i> increments the stored sequence number before returning. The initial 4-byte sequence number was part of the 256-byte array that the <i>EncryptedParameters</i> parameter of the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/285521c7-4034-4db8-9441-6c4eaee27ee3">DxgkDdiOPMSetSigningKeyAndSequenceNumbers</a> function pointed to. 


### -field cbParametersSize

The size, in bytes, of the valid data that the <b>abParameters</b> member points to. 


### -field abParameters

A 4056-byte array that contains the data that accompanies the information request that is identified by the <b>guidInformation</b> member. 

No data is required for the DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CONNECTOR_TYPE, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_SUPPORTED_PROTECTION_TYPES, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_OUTPUT_FORMAT, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ADAPTER_BUS_TYPE, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_DVI_CHARACTERISTICS, DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_OUTPUT_ID, and DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_CURRENT_HDCP_SRM_VERSION requests.

The DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_ACTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL and DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_VIRTUAL_PROTECTION_LEVEL requests require data that identifies the protection type that the protection level is requested for. Therefore, these requests require that the first 4 bytes in the <b>abParameters</b> array contain the protection type. 


## -remarks



All of the data after the <b>omac</b> member in DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS is signed; the signature is the OMAC and is stored in the <b>omac</b> member. The data is signed by using the <a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=70417">OMAC-1 algorithm</a>. 

DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS is not used for COPP emulation; instead, the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff560859">DXGKMDT_OPM_COPP_COMPATIBLE_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS</a> structure is used for COPP. 




## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff560887">DXGKMDT_OPM_OMAC</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff560906">DXGKMDT_OPM_RANDOM_NUMBER</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/3d6559e5-776e-4fc0-b99a-8818cbcc289d">DxgkDdiOPMGetInformation</a>
 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [display\display]:%20DXGKMDT_OPM_GET_INFO_PARAMETERS structure%20 RELEASE:%20(2/26/2018)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

