---
UID: NS:d3dkmddi._DXGK_PATCHFLAGS
title: "_DXGK_PATCHFLAGS"
author: windows-driver-content
description: The DXGK_PATCHFLAGS structure identifies, in bit-field flags, information about the direct memory access (DMA) buffer that requires patching.
old-location: display\dxgk_patchflags.htm
old-project: display
ms.assetid: 4052b760-70b0-4418-84f9-1e520a551a03
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 2/24/2018
ms.keywords: DXGK_PATCHFLAGS, DXGK_PATCHFLAGS structure [Display Devices], DmStructs_e798cfa4-1915-42c8-87ad-709df6a5555f.xml, _DXGK_PATCHFLAGS, d3dkmddi/DXGK_PATCHFLAGS, display.dxgk_patchflags
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: struct
req.header: d3dkmddi.h
req.include-header: D3dkmddi.h
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: Available in Windows Vista and later versions of the Windows operating systems.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: PASSIVE_LEVEL
topictype:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
apitype:
-	HeaderDef
apilocation:
-	d3dkmddi.h
apiname:
-	DXGK_PATCHFLAGS
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: DXGK_PATCHFLAGS
---

# _DXGK_PATCHFLAGS structure


## -description


The DXGK_PATCHFLAGS structure identifies, in bit-field flags, information about the direct memory access (DMA) buffer that requires patching.


## -syntax


````
typedef struct _DXGK_PATCHFLAGS {
  union {
    struct {
      UINT Paging  :1;
      UINT Present  :1;
      UINT RedirectedPresent  :1;
      UINT NullRendering  :1;
      UINT Reserved  :28;
    };
    UINT Value;
  };
} DXGK_PATCHFLAGS;
````


## -struct-fields




### -field Paging

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer is a paging buffer (that is, contains paging operations).

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the first bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000001).


### -field Present

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a present operation. The DMA buffer was generated by the driver's <a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_present.md">DxgkDdiPresent</a> function.

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the second bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000002).


### -field RedirectedPresent

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a redirected present operation, which is a present to a shared allocation that belongs to the Display Windows Manager. The DMA buffer was generated by the driver's <a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_render.md">DxgkDdiRender</a> function.

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the third bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000004).


### -field NullRendering

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the driver should simulate the insertion of the DMA buffer into the ring (that is, whether the driver should generate the fence interrupt at the end of the DMA buffer); however, the driver should not actually run (render) the DMA buffer. The <b>NullRendering</b> bit-field flag is set only during performance investigating and debugging to simulate an infinitely fast rendering engine that still must perform the overhead of DMA buffer submission and signaling. <b>NullRendering</b> is never set during typical operations.

Setting this member is equivalent to setting the fourth bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000008).


### -field Reserved

[in] This member is reserved and should be set to zero. Setting this member to zero is equivalent to setting the remaining 28 bits (0xFFFFFFF0) of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member to zeros.


#### - Value

[in] A member in the union that DXGK_PATCHFLAGS contains that can hold a 32-bit value that identifies information about the DMA buffer that requires patching.


## -see-also

<a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_patch.md">DxgkDdiPatch</a>



<a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_render.md">DxgkDdiRender</a>



<a href="..\d3dkmddi\ns-d3dkmddi-_dxgkarg_patch.md">DXGKARG_PATCH</a>



<a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_present.md">DxgkDdiPresent</a>



 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [display\display]:%20DXGK_PATCHFLAGS structure%20 RELEASE:%20(2/24/2018)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

