---
UID: NS:d3dkmddi._DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS
title: _DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS
author: windows-driver-content
description: The DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS structure identifies, in bit-field flags, information about a direct memory access (DMA) buffer to submit to the graphics processing unit (GPU).
old-location: display\dxgk_submitcommandflags.htm
old-project: display
ms.assetid: b73e49d1-3e71-4c36-b628-3d5a3975e5fa
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 12/29/2017
ms.keywords: _DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS, DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: struct
req.header: d3dkmddi.h
req.include-header: D3dkmddi.h
req.target-type: Windows
req.target-min-winverclnt: Available in Windows Vista and later versions of the Windows operating systems.
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.alt-api: DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS
req.alt-loc: d3dkmddi.h
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: PASSIVE_LEVEL
req.typenames: DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS
---

# _DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS structure



## -description
The DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS structure identifies, in bit-field flags, information about a direct memory access (DMA) buffer to submit to the graphics processing unit (GPU).



## -syntax

````
typedef struct _DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS {
  union {
    struct {
      UINT Paging  :1;
      UINT Present  :1;
      UINT RedirectedPresent  :1;
      UINT NullRendering  :1;
      UINT Flip  :1;
      UINT FlipWithNoWait  :1;
#if (DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION >= DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION_WIN8)
      UINT ContextSwitch  :1;
#if (DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION >= DXGKDDI_INTERFACE_VERSION_WDDM2_0)
      UINT Resubmission  :1;
      UINT Reserved  :24;
#else 
      UINT Reserved  :25;
#endif 
#else 
      UINT Reserved  :26;
#endif 
    };
    UINT Value;
  };
} DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS;
````


## -struct-fields

### -field Paging

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer is a paging buffer, which contains paging operations.

Setting this is equivalent to setting the first bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000001).


### -field Present

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a present operation. The DMA buffer was generated by the driver's <a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_present.md">DxgkDdiPresent</a> function.

Setting this is equivalent to setting the second bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000002).


### -field RedirectedPresent

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a redirected present operation, which is a present to a shared allocation that belongs to the Display Windows Manager. The DMA buffer was generated by the driver's <a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_render.md">DxgkDdiRender</a> function.

Setting this is equivalent to setting the third bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000004).


### -field NullRendering

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the driver should simulate the insertion of the DMA buffer into the ring (that is, whether the driver should generate the fence interrupt at the end of the DMA buffer); however, the driver should not actually run (render) the DMA buffer. The <b>NullRendering</b> bit-field flag is only set during performance investigating and debugging to simulate an infinitely fast rendering engine that still must perform the overhead of DMA buffer submission and signaling. <b>NullRendering</b> is never set during typical operations.

Setting this is equivalent to setting the fourth bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000008).


### -field Flip

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a flip operation.

Setting this is equivalent to setting the fifth bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000010).


### -field FlipWithNoWait

[in] A UINT value that specifies whether the DMA buffer contains a flip operation that occurs without a built-in wait for the next vertical synchronization.

Setting this is equivalent to setting the sixth bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000020).


### -field ContextSwitch

[in] Supported beginning with Windows 8.

A UINT value that specifies that the GPU should switch from the current executing context to the null context.

Starting with  Windows 8, the operating system explicitly requests the GPU to switch to the null context whenever an attempt is made to move or evict a resource that belongs to the context that is currently executing on the GPU. The context switch request is performed by submitting a zero-length DMA buffer with the <b>ContextSwitch</b> member set.

<div class="alert"><b>Note</b>  If the current context was executing an operation that used a paging buffer, the context switch command is  submitted with the <b>Paging</b> member also set to one.</div>
<div> </div>
Setting this is equivalent to setting the seventh bit of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0x00000040).


### -field Resubmission

Indicates whether this DMA packet is being resubmitted to the GPU due to an earlier preemption. In WDDM 2.0, both <a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_submitcommand.md">DxgkDdiSubmitCommand</a> and <a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_submitcommandvirtual.md">DxgkDdiSubmitCommandVirtual</a> will have this flag set to zero on the first DMA packet submission, and set to one when a packet is being resubmitted due to an earlier preemption.
The flag is set to zero in WDDM 1.x regardless of whether a packet has been previously preempted.


Supported starting with Windows 10.


### -field Reserved

[in] This member is reserved and should be set to zero.


### -field Reserved

[in] Supported beginning with Windows 8.

This member is reserved and should be set to zero.

Setting this is equivalent to setting the remaining 25 bits of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member (0xFFFFFF80).


### -field Reserved

[in] This member is reserved and should be set to zero.

Setting this member to zero is equivalent to setting the remaining 26 bits (0xFFFFFFC0) of the 32-bit <b>Value</b> member to zeros.


### -field Value

[in] A member in the union that DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS contains that can hold one 32-bit value that identifies information about the DMA buffer.


## -remarks


## -see-also
<dl>
<dt>
<a href="..\d3dkmddi\ns-d3dkmddi-_dxgkarg_submitcommand.md">DXGKARG_SUBMITCOMMAND</a>
</dt>
<dt>
<a href="..\d3dkmddi\nc-d3dkmddi-dxgkddi_submitcommand.md">DxgkDdiSubmitCommand</a>
</dt>
</dl>
 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [display\display]:%20DXGK_SUBMITCOMMANDFLAGS structure%20 RELEASE:%20(12/29/2017)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

