---
UID: NC:storport.HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE
title: HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE
author: windows-driver-content
description: The HwMSInterruptRoutine routine handles a message signaled interrupt (MSI).
old-location: storage\hwmsinterruptroutine.htm
old-project: storage
ms.assetid: d8e90489-c847-48e7-89c4-f7a397a8de14
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 2/16/2018
ms.keywords: storage.hwmsinterruptroutine, HwMSInterruptRoutine routine [Storage Devices], HwMSInterruptRoutine, HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE, HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE, storport/HwMSInterruptRoutine, stormini_153bf378-505e-413b-90b2-24af3fd9d502.xml
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: callback
req.header: storport.h
req.include-header: Storport.h
req.target-type: Universal
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: DIRQL
topictype:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
apitype:
-	UserDefined
apilocation:
-	Storport.h
apiname:
-	HwMSInterruptRoutine
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: "*PSTORAGE_DEVICE_UNIQUE_IDENTIFIER, STORAGE_DEVICE_UNIQUE_IDENTIFIER"
req.product: Windows 10 or later.
---

# HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE callback


## -description


The <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> routine handles a message signaled interrupt (MSI).


## -prototype


````
HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE HwMSInterruptRoutine;

BOOLEAN HwMSInterruptRoutine(
   IN PVOID HwDeviceExtension,
   IN ULONG MessageID
)
{ ... }
````


## -parameters




### -param HwDeviceExtension

A pointer to the hardware device extension for the host bus adapter (HBA).


### -param MessageId








#### - MessageID

The identifier of the message.


## -returns



<b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> returns <b>TRUE</b> if it determines that the HBA generated the MSI. If the HBA did not generate the MSI, <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> returns <b>FALSE</b>.




## -remarks



A miniport driver's <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> routine processes message signaled interrupts (MSIs) that are generated by the HBA. A miniport driver indicates that its HBA generates MSIs by setting the <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> member of the <a href="..\strmini\ns-strmini-_port_configuration_information.md">PORT_CONFIGURATION_INFORMATION</a> structure to point to the <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> routine. If the HBA does not generate MSIs, a miniport driver should set <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> to <b>NULL</b>.

If the <b>InterruptSynchronizationMode</b> member of the <a href="..\strmini\ns-strmini-_port_configuration_information.md">PORT_CONFIGURATION_INFORMATION</a> structure is set to <b>InterruptSynchronizeAll</b>, the Storport driver synchronizes all MSIs that originate with the adapter it manages or the devices connected to the adapter. When an interrupt occurs, the Storport driver calls the miniport driver's <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> routine at DIRQL after acquiring the interrupt spin lock. 

If the <b>InterruptSynchronizationMode</b> member of the <a href="..\strmini\ns-strmini-_port_configuration_information.md">PORT_CONFIGURATION_INFORMATION</a> structure is set to <b>InterruptSynchronizePerMessage</b>, the Storport driver calls the miniport driver's <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> routine at IRQL = DIRQL, holding the interrupt spin lock that corresponds to the message identifier (ID) indicated in the <b>MessageID</b> parameter. The HBA can interrupt the <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> routine for interrupts for other message IDs, so the Storport driver might make nested calls to <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b>, or run different instances of <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> simultaneously on different processors. To synchronize access to sensitive data by different instances of <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b>, the miniport must call the <a href="..\storport\nf-storport-storportacquiremsispinlock.md">StorPortAcquireMSISpinLock</a> and <a href="..\storport\nf-storport-storportreleasemsispinlock.md">StorPortReleaseMSISpinLock</a> routines to acquire and release the spin locks for message IDs other than the ID in <b>MessageID</b>.

A miniport driver can retrieve additional information about the message by calling the <a href="..\storport\nf-storport-storportgetmsiinfo.md">StorPortGetMSIInfo</a> routine.

It should not call the <b>StorPortGetMSIInfo</b> routine from inside the <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> routine.

The name <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> is just a placeholder. The actual prototype for this routine is defined in <i>Storport.h</i> as follows:

<div class="code"><span codelanguage=""><table>
<tr>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>typedef
BOOLEAN
  HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE (
    _In_ PVOID  HwDeviceExtension,
    _In_ ULONG  MessageId
    );</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</table></span></div>

#### Examples

To define an <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> callback function, you must first provide a function declaration that identifies the type of callback function you’re defining. Windows provides a set of callback function types for drivers. Declaring a function using the callback function types helps <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/2F3549EF-B50F-455A-BDC7-1F67782B8DCA">Code Analysis for Drivers</a>, <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/74feeb16-387c-4796-987a-aff3fb79b556">Static Driver Verifier</a> (SDV), and other verification tools find errors, and it’s a requirement for writing drivers for the Windows operating system.

 For example, to define a <b>HwMSInterruptRoutine</b> callback routine that is named <i>MyHwMSIRoutine</i>, use the <b>HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE</b> type as shown in this code example:

<div class="code"><span codelanguage=""><table>
<tr>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE MyHwMSIRoutine;</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</table></span></div>
Then, implement your callback routine as follows:

<div class="code"><span codelanguage=""><table>
<tr>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>_Use_decl_annotations_
BOOLEAN
MyHwMSIRoutine (
  _In_ PVOID  DeviceExtension,
  _In_ ULONG  MessageId
  );
  {
      ...
  }</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</table></span></div>
The <b>HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE</b> function type is defined in the Storport.h header file. To more accurately identify errors when you run the code analysis tools, be sure to add the _Use_decl_annotations_ annotation to your function definition. The _Use_decl_annotations_ annotation ensures that the annotations that are applied to the <b>HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE</b> function type in the header file are used. For more information about the requirements for function declarations, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/40BD11CD-A559-4F90-BF39-4ED2FB800392">Declaring Functions Using Function Role Types for Storport Drivers</a>. For information about _Use_decl_annotations_, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj159529.aspx">Annotating Function Behavior</a>.




## -see-also

<a href="..\strmini\ns-strmini-_port_configuration_information.md">PORT_CONFIGURATION_INFORMATION</a>



<a href="..\storport\nf-storport-storportreleasemsispinlock.md">StorPortReleaseMSISpinLock</a>



<a href="..\storport\nf-storport-storportacquiremsispinlock.md">StorPortAcquireMSISpinLock</a>



<a href="..\storport\nf-storport-storportgetmsiinfo.md">StorPortGetMSIInfo</a>



 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [storage\storage]:%20HW_MESSAGE_SIGNALED_INTERRUPT_ROUTINE routine%20 RELEASE:%20(2/16/2018)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

