---
UID: NC:storport.HW_INITIALIZE
title: HW_INITIALIZE (storport.h)
description: The HwStorInitialize routine initializes the miniport driver after a system reboot or power failure occurs.
old-location: storage\hwstorinitialize.htm
tech.root: storage
ms.date: 03/29/2018
keywords: ["HW_INITIALIZE callback function"]
ms.keywords: HW_INITIALIZE, HwStorInitialize, HwStorInitialize routine [Storage Devices], storage.hwstorinitialize, stormini_ef5f6b0d-443d-4ee4-a319-117e5be40831.xml, storport/HwStorInitialize
req.header: storport.h
req.include-header: Storport.h
req.target-type: Universal
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: DIRQL (See Remarks section.)
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: 
f1_keywords:
 - HW_INITIALIZE
 - storport/HW_INITIALIZE
topic_type:
 - APIRef
 - kbSyntax
api_type:
 - UserDefined
api_location:
 - Storport.h
api_name:
 - HW_INITIALIZE
---

# HW_INITIALIZE callback function

## -description

The **HwStorInitialize** routine initializes the miniport driver after a system reboot or power failure occurs. It is called by StorPort after [**HwStorFindAdapter**](nc-storport-hw_find_adapter.md) successfully returns. **HwStorInitialize** initializes the HBA and finds all devices that are of interest to the miniport driver.

## -parameters

### -param DeviceExtension

A pointer to the miniport driver's per HBA storage area.

## -returns

If the initialization succeeds, **HwStorInitialize** returns **TRUE**.

## -remarks

The name **HwStorInitialize** is just a placeholder. The actual prototype of this routine is defined in *Storport.h* as follows:

``` c
typedef
BOOLEAN
HW_INITIALIZE (
  _In_ PVOID  DeviceExtension
  );
```

Because **HwStorInitialize** is called at DIRQL, as much of the initialization process as possible should be performed by [**HwStorPassiveInitializeRoutine**](nc-storport-hw_passive_initialize_routine.md). If so, you must enable the passive initialization routine via [**StorPortEnablePassiveInitialization**](nf-storport-storportenablepassiveinitialization.md).

If interrupts are generated by the hardware initialization, the [**HwStorInterrupt**](nc-storport-hw_interrupt.md) routine will be called. In this case, the **HwStorInitialize** routine should set up any data that **HwStorInterrupt** expects (including a [**HwStorDpcRoutine**](nc-storport-hw_dpc_routine.md), if one is used) before it begins to initialize the hardware.

The following responsibilities are shared between **HwStorInitialize** and [**HwStorPassiveInitializeRoutine**](nc-storport-hw_passive_initialize_routine.md):

* Initialize hardware for the HBA registers and buffers.

* Initialize and allocate all **DeviceExtension** fields.

* Set up and initialize all events and DPCs that are used by the miniport driver.

### Examples

To define an **HwStorInitialize** callback function, you must first provide a function declaration that identifies the type of callback function you’re defining. Windows provides a set of callback function types for drivers. Declaring a function using the callback function types helps [Code Analysis for Drivers](/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/code-analysis-for-drivers), [Static Driver Verifier](/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/static-driver-verifier) (SDV), and other verification tools find errors, and it’s a requirement for writing drivers for the Windows operating system.

 For example, to define a **HwStorInitialize** callback routine that is named **MyHwInitialize**, use the **HW_INITIALIZE** type as shown in this code example:

``` c
HW_INITIALIZE MyHwInitialize;
```

Then, implement your callback routine as follows:

``` c
_Use_decl_annotations_
BOOLEAN 
  MyHwInitialize( _In_ PVOID DeviceExtension )
  {
      ...
  }
```

The **HW_INITIALIZE** function type is defined in the Storport.h header file. To more accurately identify errors when you run the code analysis tools, be sure to add the _Use_decl_annotations_ annotation to your function definition. The _Use_decl_annotations_ annotation ensures that the annotations that are applied to the **HW_INITIALIZE** function type in the header file are used. For more information about the requirements for function declarations, see [Declaring Functions Using Function Role Types for Storport Drivers](/windows-hardware/drivers/devtest/declaring-functions-by-using-function-role-types-for-storport-drivers). For information about _Use_decl_annotations_, see [Annotating Function Behavior](/visualstudio/code-quality/annotating-function-behavior).

## -see-also

[**HwStorDpcRoutine**](nc-storport-hw_dpc_routine.md)

[**HwStorFindAdapter**](nc-storport-hw_find_adapter.md)

[**HwStorInterrupt**](nc-storport-hw_interrupt.md)

[**HwStorPassiveInitializeRoutine**](nc-storport-hw_passive_initialize_routine.md)

[**StorPortEnablePassiveInitialization**](nf-storport-storportenablepassiveinitialization.md)
