---
UID: NC:video.PVIDEO_HW_INTERRUPT
title: PVIDEO_HW_INTERRUPT
author: windows-driver-content
description: HwVidInterrupt detects and dismisses interrupts generated by the associated video adapter.
old-location: display\hwvidinterrupt.htm
old-project: display
ms.assetid: 523471e3-cf1e-48d2-b5f0-2f8d19ad71e0
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 12/29/2017
ms.keywords: display.hwvidinterrupt, HwVidInterrupt callback function [Display Devices], HwVidInterrupt, PVIDEO_HW_INTERRUPT, PVIDEO_HW_INTERRUPT, video/HwVidInterrupt, VideoMiniport_Functions_9c3ff1cb-9812-461c-8ac5-b6cbdbe63c59.xml
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: callback
req.header: video.h
req.include-header: Video.h
req.target-type: Desktop
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
req.lib: 
req.dll: 
req.irql: 
topictype:
-	APIRef
-	kbSyntax
apitype:
-	UserDefined
apilocation:
-	video.h
apiname:
-	HwVidInterrupt
product: Windows
targetos: Windows
req.typenames: VHF_CONFIG, *PVHF_CONFIG
req.product: Windows 10 or later.
---

# PVIDEO_HW_INTERRUPT callback


## -description


<i>HwVidInterrupt</i> detects and dismisses interrupts generated by the associated video adapter.


## -prototype


````
PVIDEO_HW_INTERRUPT HwVidInterrupt;

BOOLEAN HwVidInterrupt(
   PVOID HwDeviceExtension
)
{ ... }
````


## -parameters




### -param HwDeviceExtension

Pointer to the miniport driver's per-adapter storage area. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff543119">Device Extensions</a>.


## -returns


If <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> determines that its associated hardware did not generate the interrupt, it returns <b>FALSE</b>. Otherwise, it must dismiss the interrupt on its adapter before it returns <b>TRUE</b>.



## -remarks


A miniport driver must implement <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> if its video adapter generates interrupts.

First, <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> should determine whether its adapter actually caused the interrupt. If not, this function should return <b>FALSE</b> immediately so the ISR of the device that caused the interrupt will be called promptly.

Otherwise, <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> is generally responsible for completing the I/O operation that caused the interrupt, and should do the following:
<ul>
<li>
Dismiss the interrupt on the adapter (required).

</li>
<li>
Complete the requested operation that caused the interrupt.

</li>
<li>
Return control as quickly as possible (required).

</li>
</ul>If a miniport driver has an <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> function, no register or memory location that can be accessed by <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> can be visible to the corresponding display driver. An interrupt can occur while the display driver is modifying one of the registers or memory locations involved, and there is no way to ensure synchronization. Therefore, all functions requiring access to the critical registers or memory locations for interrupt-driven operations must be in the miniport driver.

If any other miniport driver function shares memory, such as part of the <i>HwDeviceExtension</i>, with <i>HwVidInterrupt</i>, it must call <b>VideoPortSynchronizeExecution</b> to synchronize its access to the shared area.

<i>HwVidInterrupt</i> can call only the following system-supplied <b>VideoPort</b><i>Xxx</i> routines (see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff566461">Functions Exported by the Video Port Driver</a>):
<ul>
<li>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportqueuedpc.md">VideoPortQueueDpc</a>


</li>
<li>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportzerodevicememory.md">VideoPortZeroDeviceMemory</a> and <a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportzeromemory.md">VideoPortZeroMemory</a>


</li>
<li>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportlogerror.md">VideoPortLogError</a>


</li>
<li>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportstallexecution.md">VideoPortStallExecution</a> for no more than a very few microseconds. If possible, <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> should avoid calling this function.

</li>
<li>
All <b>VideoPortRead</b><i>Xxx</i> and <b>VideoPortWrite</b><i>Xxx</i> routines.

</li>
<li>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportdisableinterrupt.md">VideoPortDisableInterrupt</a> (obsolete)

</li>
<li>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportenableinterrupt.md">VideoPortEnableInterrupt</a> (obsolete)

</li>
</ul><i>HwVidInterrupt</i> must <i>not</i> call any <b>VideoPort</b><i>Xxx</i> function that is not in the preceding list. Violation of this requirement will cause system failure (a "blue screen").

A <i>HwVidInterrupt</i> function cannot be pageable, nor can any function that it calls.



## -see-also

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportdisableinterrupt.md">VideoPortDisableInterrupt</a>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportenableinterrupt.md">VideoPortEnableInterrupt</a>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportstallexecution.md">VideoPortStallExecution</a>

<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff566461">Functions Exported by the Video Port Driver</a>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportzerodevicememory.md">VideoPortZeroDeviceMemory</a>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportsynchronizeexecution.md">VideoPortSynchronizeExecution</a>

<a href="..\video\nc-video-pminiport_synchronize_routine.md">HwVidSynchronizeExecutionCallback</a>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportzeromemory.md">VideoPortZeroMemory</a>

<a href="..\video\nf-video-videoportlogerror.md">VideoPortLogError</a>

 

 

<a href="mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback [display\display]:%20PVIDEO_HW_INTERRUPT callback function%20 RELEASE:%20(12/29/2017)&amp;body=%0A%0APRIVACY STATEMENT%0A%0AWe use your feedback to improve the documentation. We don't use your email address for any other purpose, and we'll remove your email address from our system after the issue that you're reporting is fixed. While we're working to fix this issue, we might send you an email message to ask for more info. Later, we might also send you an email message to let you know that we've addressed your feedback.%0A%0AFor more info about Microsoft's privacy policy, see http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx." title="Send comments about this topic to Microsoft">Send comments about this topic to Microsoft</a>

